#summary Howto mavenize a project for the use with tomcat-starter

= Introduction =

 * every projects needs a pom.xml
 * the main parts of the pom.xml are the *project description* and the *dependency definition*


= Details =

 * project description
If you are just having a simple project that produces a JAR (even if it's a Web Project) from some source in *src/main/java*, you don't have to customize anything.
All you would need, in this case, is the simplest possible POM shown below. 
{{{
<project>
  <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
  <groupId>[e.g. name of company/organisation]</groupId>
  <artifactId>[project identifier name]</artifactId>
  <version>0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
</project>
}}} 

 * dependency definition
You will certainly have some dependencies for your project (e.g. commons-lang, spring core lib ...), which you will have to take care about.
Have a look a the sample below for the syntax:
{{{
<dependency>
	<groupId>commons-lang</groupId>
	<artifactId>commons-lang</artifactId>
	<version>2.3</version>
</dependency>
}}}

If you don't know the coordinates (groupId, artifactId, version) for your needed dependency you can use the *Dependency Wizard* of the m2 plugin.
Just do a right click on the project --> Maven --> Add Dependency --> type e.g. 'lang' for commons-lang and you will get all indexed dependencies which contains 'lang' in the coordinates.

 * Version or SNAPSHOT
All dependencies with a *-SNAPSHOT* suffix are temporary dependencies. They can vary from day to day respectively from hour to hour, depending on the build time of the project.
All other dependencies are fixed. They will (should) never change !!

 * Change the source folder location
You probably might have a different source folder location, which you have to tell the Maven Plugin. Just add the following lines below the project description.
{{{
<build>
	<sourceDirectory>source</sourceDirectory>
	<outputDirectory>webApplication/WEB-INF/classes</outputDirectory>
</build>
}}}
The sample above might be a in/out folder definition for a Web Project.